>> Scott Moss: So now what we're gonna be
doing is we're gonna do something a little
more complicated but if you've used
Angular, this should be familiar.
You're just gonna probably go
do this in a different way.
So we have right now some static data for
like those,
those blog posts just like
static data that we made.
We're gonna replace that with real
data from a server that's in the repo
right now.
Sweet.
So before we do that,
let's talk about services.
Who here wants to give me their
definition of a service in Angular?
>> Scott Moss: Yep?
>> Student 1: A single threaded request.
>> Scott Moss: Single threaded, I think
it of a, you think of a HTTP column.
I'm just talking about the actual
services in the Angular like-
>> Student 2: You quit the dollar HTTP or
the dollar research or what?
>> Scott Moss: Right,
it’s the part of the research that, yeah.
>> Student 1: Yeah.
So a service is,
if you think of essentially, a factory.
But a service is, it uses the this
keyword and it's newable.
But the factory isn't?
>> Scott Moss: Right, so
you actually gave me the definition
of the exact method called service.
So, this is where it gets confusing.
This is were I ask people because
this is really confusing.
In fact, there was a talk at Indie conf.
About how confusing this was,
because it was so confusing.
So, the term service is used is loosely
used in Angular one X, very loosely used.
Because technically, all the stuff
I'm about show you is a service but
there exists a method with the name of
service as well, which is also service.
So, all these methods that you
can call on angular.module,
they are all technically called services.
But again, there is one whose
name is actually called service.
That's why the term service and Angular
one X is loosely used because of if
somewhere is yeah,
I write a service for that.
What do they really mean?
Do they actually write a service for
that or they mean write a service for
that, right?
I don't know.
So yes, very loosely used I think
they could call it a better term but
the differences are in this bill there.
A service and a factory they're pretty
much synonymous, the differences
are pretty simple a service is
a newable function that uses this.
That's pretty much it, so when you pass
in the second callback function here for
the finished injection, the function's
gonna be called new on, right?
But it's also a singleton.
So, it's not gonna be a new instance
every time you use the service.
So remember that, it's a singleton.
And then a factory is
a function that's not newable.
It will return whatever
you want it to return.
You can return a number.
You can return a boolean.
You can return an object.
You can return another function,
that is newable.
You can do whatever you
want with a factory.
So, those are two differences
between those two,
cuz a lot of people get
those two confused.
So you can use either or,
to get the same thing.
Unless, you were trying to return
something that wasn't an object because
a service can only return an object
because it's to instantiable
factory function which only returns
instances which are objects.
So, that's why I usually
just use factories.
So I can return whatever I want,
I'm not a big service person.
And then constants and values are just
like a way to store constants and values.
But you can make constances in ES2015 now,
so it's like yay, whatever.
So yeah, all these are services,
but this is a service.
So if you hear me say,
just make a service for that.
That really means pick one of these and
make one, all right?
I'm not really saying go make a service,
all right?
So, just remember that.
It's really confusing.
So here's what the code looks like for
that, a little difference.
So you have your module, and
then you have your dot service here.
This is an actual service.
This function right here is called
a function is a newable function.
So, I think I've touched
on this yesterday.
You can't and
should not use arrow functions here
as if there were no why you should.
>> Student 3: This context is bound to
declaration or where it's declared.
>> Scott Moss: Exactly.
The context is gonna be bound
to whatever outside scope and
this is sitting like on the global
store that will be the window.
So when you say this.action,
you have to say window.action
which is not what you want, right?
So, that the error functions are not
meant to replace constructor functions.
Just remember that and
if you're making a service,
the actual method service then
this is a constructor function.
So, they are not for arrow functions for
constructor function on a factory.
Yes.
>> Student 1: Just a quick question.
So with that kind of
ES6 NIM Conventions here,
could we instead of saying function there,
say like my service?
Double prints or
is that just objects constructed?
>> Scott Moss: I see what you mean.
>> Student 1: Yeah.
>> Scott Moss: You can only
do it on object literals.
>> Student 1: Object literals, okay.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
object literals and classes.
>> Student 1: Cool.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, so-
>> Student 1: But
if you could like created
named function below and
it hosts up into there
if you reference it?
>> Scott Moss: If you create a name
function over the functional expression
and hoisted up here?
>> Student 1: Like if I
said function not service.
>> Scott Moss: You could do that
>> Student 1: And
just put my service there.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
you can totally do that, that'll work.
As long as you do the expression and
not a declaration.
>> Student 1: Cool.
>> Scott Moss: Or is it the other way
around?
I don't know, one of those two.
But a factory is not a newable function.
I mean this, this function is still
dependency injection and you still
might have some problems with trying to
figure out how to handle minification but
as far as like scoping, you should be
fine as long as you don't use this.
But maybe just to protect yourself,
you should probably still not
use arrow functions here.
I just do it because I know I'm
never gonna use this inside of here,
unless I'm creating a new scope so.
But a factory can't return anything,
it has to return something though.
If you don't put the return key
word in a factory return something,
angular will not it will not run, it will
break like you didn't return something.
You need to return something this factory,
so
long as you return anything which
could also be a newable function, so
you can return a constructor
function here which is great.
Any questions on those two?
>> Student 1: There's a clarification
from Daniel and may be worth asking.
So, would you be able to use
a class as a service since that's
a newable thing as well, right?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, you would be
able to use a class as a service.
You could totally do that
long as a class is made.
So technically, classes in ES2015 is spec,
they're not supposed to hoist.
But I think, Babel allows them to hoist.
But if you're ready to
classes make sure you have
a defined before you make a service.
Although, I think Babel will
allow you to hoist up, so
you can define it down here from the top.
But I'm pretty sure according
to the ES 2015 spec,
they're not supposed to hoist like that
for reasons as far as extending them.
You have problems with that,
so they don't allow that.